I added my Final Research Paper about Enhancing Cybersecurity: Superior Performance of Ensemble Methods and Tree-Based Models in Detecting Trojan Horse Attacks.Abstract— As the threat emanating from Trojan horse malware continues to increase, identifying and preventing the attack on computer systems is a vital endeavor in protecting data. The area of application of this project revolves around the use of current machine learning to create a highly effective detection system for Trojan horse malware. Using the given dataset with the Trojan type of malicious network packets and legitimate ones, the project will establish the best machine learning algorithms for classifying threats. Several of the critical processes that need to be accomplished regarding the development of the project are as follows: data cleansing, data transformation, selection of models, and assessment of models. Four specific models of supervised learning techniques are used in this present work: Decision Trees, Random Forests, Gradient Boosting, and Logistics Regression. Based on the experiment and the analysis of the setout measures of accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score, the project aims at identifying which of the various models is most effective in detecting Trojan horse malware within a network. By following the findings of the project, one can gain an understanding as to how well various machine learning techniques can work in addressing Trojan horse attacks. By improving the knowledge on the subject of malicious network activity, entities can strengthen their protections against cyber threats, which further helps build the security of the ecosystem, reducing the impact of such threats.
